
__next 13__

npx create-next-app@13.1 --experimental-app

npm i next@latest react@latest react-dom@latest eslint-config-next@latest

package.json


"scripts": {
  "dev": "next dev", // hot module reloading, run app in dev mode using hot module reloading
  "build": "next build", // build app / ready for prod
  "start": "next start", // start your built app in prod
  "lint": "next lint"
}



latest features. 
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
  experimental: {
    appDir: true,
  },
};

module.exports = nextConfig;

__pages__

app / put our pages

pages.tsx / index
if you want another page, create a folder: 
about/page.tsx

dynamic routes
- query / params

[slug] = dynamic route
/blog/[slug]/page.tsx



pages / backend api routes

__next 12__

npm run dev

__pages__

pages folder
pages/index.tsx // default route

__params__

pages/notes // all notes
pages/note/:id // one note
pages
    notes
        index.tsx
        [id].tsx

__dynamic route parameters__

how to access the parameter of that route

how to grab the id? 

import { useRouter,  } from 'next/router' // react hooks
- gives your router so that you can get the param


withRouter // used for class components

const Page = () => {
    const router = useRouter();
    const { id } = router.query; // object with all params... 
    return (
        <h1> {id} </h1>   
    )
}


what's teh router object look lik

catch-all routes

glob pattern - 

this/folder/**  < this captures everything after a path

** means everything inside 

syntax

docs/[...param].jsx

ellipsis will catch everything after docs

optional catch all is inclusive

it will also include the parent path

docs/[[..param]]

Routing

link component lets us route betweene pages

only used to navigate client side - no request to the server. 

<Link href="/settings">
<a>setings</a>
</Link>

relative to the pages directory

dynamic routing
- use "as"
- not using it is for pre-fetching
- still works / 

programmatic routing
- based on an event, we need to route
- use the router to navigate

https://hendrixer.github.io/nextjs-course/pages
- 
- 
Just like the Link component, use the router for client-side routing. To navigate to a page, you can use the push method, which works like href on the Link component.

```js
import React from 'react'
import { useRouter } from 'next/router'

export default () => {
  const router = useRouter()
  const id = 2

  return (
    <div>
      <button onClick={e => router.push('/')}>
        Go Home
      </button>

      <button onClick={e => router.push('/user/[id]', `/user/${id}`)}>
        Dashboard
      </button>
    </div>
  )
}
```

__style__

When it comes to styling, you have global styles and component styles. For global CSS, you have to import them at the entry point of your app. Wait, where is the entrance to my Next.js app? It's actually created for you, but you can and have to create your own now that you want **global styles.**

Create an pages/_app.jsx file and add this:

```js
export default function App({ Component, pageProps }) {
  return <Component {...pageProps} />
}
```

This is an entry point.  
Allows us to hijack the root / entry point 

This automatically gets created for you by default with the same code. In the _app.jsx you can import any CSS file, and the styles will be global now.

```js
import 'flexbox.css'
import '../mystyles.css'
```

change name:  styles.module.css
adding module to it.
can import into a specific file, 
can import into that file and it won't collide

Themee UI

npm i theme-ui @theme-ui/presets --save

yarn add theme-ui @theme-ui/presets

Next, we'll create a theme. Make a file on the root of your app.

theme.js
Now add this theme:
```js
import { roboto } from '@theme-ui/presets'

const theme = {
  ...roboto,
  containers: {
    card: {
      boxShadow: '0 1px 3px rgba(0,0,0,0.12), 0 1px 2px rgba(0,0,0,0.24)',
      border: '1px solid',
      borderColor: 'muted',
      borderRadius: '4px',
      p: 2,
    },
    page: {
      width: '100%',
      maxWidth: '960px',
      m: 0,
      mx: 'auto',
    }
  },
  styles: {
    ...roboto.styles
  }
}
```
export default theme
This object uses a preset theme with some extras I added. Throw in a console.log(theme) to see what's in there.

Next we'll create a Navigation component at src/components/nav.jsx

```js
/** @jsx jsx */
import { jsx } from 'theme-ui'
import Link from 'next/link'

const Nav = () => (
  <header sx={{height: '60px', width: '100vw', bg: 'primary', borderBottom: '1px solid', borderColor: 'primary'}}>
    <nav sx={{display: 'flex', alignItems: 'center',  justifyContent: 'space-between', variant: 'containers.page', height: '100%'}}>
      <Link href="/">
        <a sx={{fontWeight: 'bold', fontSize: 4, cursor: 'pointer'}}>Note App</a>
      </Link>

      <Link href="/notes">
        <a sx={{color: 'text', fontSize: 3, cursor: 'pointer'}}>notes</a>
      </Link>

    </nav>
  </header>
)
```
export default Nav
A few subtle but powerful things here. First, lets talk about this:

/** @jsx jsx */
import { jsx } from 'theme-ui'
Ummm, what is that, and how does this component render JSX without importing React? That comment is something called JSX pragma. Its a hint to the compiler how to compile this file. The comment combined with the JSX import from theme-ui tells the compiler, babel, in this case, of what JSX tool to use to handle JSX in this file. It's the same reason you had to import React in your JSX files.

We need the theme-ui JSX to use the sx prop on all of our components. The sx prop allows us to add inline styles to components using CSS properties and values and values from our theme object that we created. It's BEAUTIFUL 💋.

And now, our pages.

// pages/index.jsx
/** @jsx jsx */
import { jsx } from 'theme-ui'
import Link from 'next/link'

export default () => (
  <div sx={{ height: `calc(100vh - 60px)`}}>
    <div sx={{variant: 'containers.page', display: 'flex', alignItems: 'center', height: '100%'}}>
      <h1 sx={{fontSize: 8, my: 0}}>This is a really dope note taking app.</h1>
    </div>
  </div> 
)
// pages/notes/index.jsx
/** @jsx jsx */
import { jsx } from 'theme-ui'
import Link from 'next/link'

export default () => {
  const notes = new Array(15).fill(1).map((e, i) => ({id: i, title: `This is my note ${i}`}))

  return (
    <div sx={{variant: 'containers.page'}}>
      <h1>My Notes</h1>

      <div sx={{display: 'flex', justifyContent: 'space-between', alignItems: 'center', flexWrap: 'wrap'}}>
        {notes.map(note => (
          <div sx={{width: '33%', p: 2}}>
            <Link key={note.id} href="/notes/[id]" as={`/notes/${note.id}`}>
              <a sx={{textDecoration: 'none', cursor: 'pointer'}}>
                <div sx={{variant: 'containers.card',}}>
                  <strong>{note.title}</strong>
                </div>
              </a>
            </Link>
          </div>
        ))}
      </div>
    </div>
  )
}
// pages/[id].jsx
/** @jsx jsx */
import { jsx } from 'theme-ui'
import { useRouter } from 'next/router'
import Link from 'next/link'

export default () => {
  const router = useRouter()
  const { id }= router.query

  return (
    <div sx={{variant: 'containers.page'}}>
      <h1>Note: {id} </h1>
    </div>
  )
}
We now need to wrap our app in the Theme UI provider. We have two options:

wrap every page individually
wrap the root component
Because we want to use Theme UI in our entire app, its safe to wrap the root. So in the pages/_app.jsx file:

/** @jsx jsx */
import { jsx } from 'theme-ui'
import { ThemeProvider } from 'theme-ui'
import theme from '../theme'
import Nav from '../src/components/nav'

export default function App({ Component, pageProps }) {
  return (
    <ThemeProvider theme={theme}>
      <div>
        <Nav />
        <Component {...pageProps} />
      </div>      
    </ThemeProvider>
  )
}
Theme UI is profound, and we barely scratched the surface. I highly recommend checking it out.


/** @jss jsx */ -- js pragma > a directive to tell compiler (babel) that when you compile jsx, use this tool and not react. 
same reason you have to import react to a jsx comp, so that compiler knows how to compile jsx, there's a jsx lib in there. 
thus, babel knows how to get it. 

to use sx: 

/** @jsxImportSource theme-ui */

this also allows us to use sx - 
sx prop is inline style
same thing except it has a different output. not inline style
this will create css + scope it (like css modules) + add to head of doc 
it will add scoped classnames to all those elements
you can refer to theme variagles
shortcuts like bg pl (paddingleft)
variant = container.page

css prop does same thing wihtout theme variabel and shortcuts

this is built on emotion
so you can use their styled components 

variants

containers: {
    page: {
        color: 'red
    }
}

<div sx={{variant: 'containers.red'}}>