
Kinds of encryption

1.	Hashsing – a hash is. Afunction that converts one value to another.
2.	Symmetrical (shared secret or secret key)
a.	Both client and server help to create “key” via a ‘key exchange algorithm” –
b.	Once established, the rest of the data must be encrypted using this secret key
c.	Ie, one function shared with two people that decrypts… 
3.	Assymetrical – to send data in a certain direction, 2 keys are needed: a private and public key.
a.	The public key is associated with private key, but pvt key can’t be derived from the pub key.
b.	The math relationship between two allows pub key to encrypt messages that can only be decrypted by prvte key
c.	The pub key has no abiity to decrypt the messages it writes, nor can it decrypt anything the pvt key may send
d.	Both parties creaete temp key pairs and exchange public key  in order to create “shared secret”
e.	Process: 
f.	Client creats a key pair and uploads pub key to remote server’s .ssh .authorized_keys directory
g.	Server uses the pub key to encrypt a “challenge message” to client.  
h.	If client can prove that it was able to decrypt message, it has demonstrated it owns the associated pvt key.

Process
1.	Server listens for connections
2.	Client begins initial TCP handshake: 
3.	Server responds with protocoal versions it supports – if client matches one, connection continues
4.	Server provides public host key – client uses this to see if this was intended host
5.	Both parties negotiate a ‘session key’ using algorithm that make it possible for each to combine their own private data with public data from other system to arrive at an identical “secret session key”.
6.	The secret key is used to encrypt the entire session.
a.	
7.	Server Negotiates a secure connection – agree upon and est encryption to protect future communication
8.	Authenticates the connectin paty – should access to the server be granted? 
9.	Spawns the correct environment if credential accepted. 


Algorithm / cipher
1.	Both agree on large prime number
2.	Both on an encryption generator (like AES) used to manipulate values in a set way
3.	Independently, each party comes up with a second prime number which is kept secret from other party (private key – different from private SSH key used for auth)
4.	Second prime number is the generated private key? The encryption generator? 
5.	The shared prime and the pvt key is used to create a pub key, shared with other party
6.	Both sides exchange this generated pub key
7.	Server uses its own pvt key, other’s pub key, and original shared prime to create. A “shared secret key” – this is created by both, butresults in same key
8.	Shared secret used to encrypt all communications.


5 – 5 – shared prime
3 – 1 – unshared prime	 > used to create a sec pvt key: 9 – 3. *3
Shared prime and pvt key used to create a pub key shared with other. +5 : 14-8

Each side uses pvt key, pub key, and shared prime to create a secret key

9 – x pvt key. (x = 3)

14 – 8 pub key
 5 – 5 sahred prime

28 – 13 – secret key


PASSPORT 

1.	Landing page
2.	Click on google to signin (/auth/provider)
3.	If yes, we get access to their google info, which we store in our db
4.	Has user been here before? Check in db
5.	If no, create a new record for them
6.	If yes, create a unique cookie – a hash
7.	Send cookie to their browser
8.	User sends cookie, we decode it to get user info… 
9.	

1.	I log into google
2.	Google sends server a “key” that is stored in db
a.	OR user logs password, which is hashed and stored in db”
3.	Server uses “key” (or hash?) to create a cookie.
a.	A cookie is an encrypted key/hash.  (userID) 
4.	Server sends “key” to user’s browser
5.	User sends cookie back to server with each request
6.	If authenticated (if cookie-id matches server’s session data), send back data


1.	Server has userID – from a third party or not
2.	It uses userID to create a cookie, which is sent to client
3.	Client sends cookie back with each transaction
4.	If match, respond.
