const mimeTypes = {
  '.html': 'text/html',
  '.jgp': 'image/jpeg',
  '.css': 'text/css',
  '.js': 'text/javascript',
  '.png': 'image/png',
  '.ico': 'image/x-icon',
  '.json': 'application/json',
};

const extname = '.js';

I want to find the right value corresponding to the key that is 'extname'

original solution: 


let contentType = Object.keys(mimeTypes)
  .filter(key => 
    (extname === key) ? mimeTypes[key] : null
  );


problem

this is returning the key... 


actual solution:

  let contentType = Object.keys(mimeTypes)
    .map(key => (extname === key ? mimeTypes[key] : null))
    .filter(key => typeof key === 'string')[0]

console.log(contentType)

what went wrong:      
  
filters must be fed a condition
the key is run through the condition
if the key is true in light of condition, its return
it was returning the key '.js' because it met the condition.

instead, map goes through all the keys. for each, it runs the key through the offered function, the output is the new key

this will return every key, but transformed as true or false ~ based on the result of the callback body.  This uses the body to judge whether to judge in what form to return the key
    .map(key => 
      (extname === key))

this will return only the keys that matches the condition in the body.  This uses the body to judge whether to return a key
    .filter(key => 
      (extname === key))



this will 
1. first key is .html
2. is .html === .js? false, so acc = false
3. the next key is false because the acc is false (the acc becomes next key)
4. even though the next key is .css
5. is false ==== .js is false, so this becomes next acc, etc

        .reduce(key => 
      (extname === key))

.reduce requires an additional acc key

    .reduce((acc, key) => extname === key)

1. first key is .html, which instantly becomes the first accumulator
2. second key is .jpg, which becomes teh first key.
3. now the body is run: .html === .jpg? false
4. so false becomes the next accumulator
5. third key is .css, which becomes the next key.
6. now the body is run: .js === .css? false,
7. so false becomes the next accumulator, etc 