__what are functions?__ 

- functions are objects that have an internal property named [[Call]] - its an executable object
- internal properties are not accessible via code, but rather defne the behavior of the code as it executes. 

__functions v objects__

- Function can include whatever expressions and statements.

- objects are a series of expressions only.  However, one such expression is a function 

  

__Functions can hold properties__

- this is a static variable / property  of itself  that will remember



```js
hi.a = 0  // property of the function
function hi() {  // this is hoisted up, so we can assign prior to declaration
  hi.a++  
}
console.log(hi.a) // 0
hi();
console.log(hi.a) // 1
```

__functions can have properties like objects__

```js
function x(n) {
  return n*2
}
x.store = 5;
```

__parameters__

- you can add endless parameters
- parameters are stored as an array like structure called `arguments`
- if you call `length` on a funcion, it will tell you how many named paramters

__overloading__

- ability to have multiple signatures
- a signature is made up of the function name + the number / type of parameters it expects
- eg: a function has 1 signature that accepts a single string argument and another that accepts 2 numeric arguments
- JS functions don't have signatures because it can take anything; thus it has no function overloading issues. 
- if you declare 2 functions with the same name, the last one wins.  

object methods

this



sources

[Javascript: What is a function property and what is it's significance?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39138253/javascript-what-is-a-function-property-and-what-is-its-significance)

Although these two forms are quite similar, they differ in a very important way. Function declarations are hoisted to the top of the context (either the function in which the declaration occurs or the global scope) when the code is executed. That means you can actually define a function after it is used in code without generating an error.

(Page 18). 