Sass is a CSS pre-processor with syntax advancements. Style sheets in the advanced syntax are processed by the program, and turned into regular CSS style sheets. However, they do **not** extend the CSS standard itself.



So everything CSS can do, then Sass can do



> There are two syntaxes available for Sass. The first, known as **`SCSS (Sassy CSS)`** and used throughout this reference, is an **extension of the syntax of CSS**. This means that every valid CSS stylesheet is a valid SCSS file with the same meaning. This syntax is enhanced with the Sass features described below. Files using this syntax have the **.scss** extension.
>
> The second and **older syntax**, known as the **`indented syntax (or sometimes just “Sass”)`**, provides a more concise way of writing CSS. It **uses indentation rather than brackets** to indicate nesting of selectors, and **newlines rather than semicolons** to separate properties. Files using this syntax have the **.sass** extension.

However, `all this works only with the Sass pre-compiler` which in the end creates CSS. It is not an extension to the CSS standard itself.

The difference between sass and scss

The difference is syntax. Underneath the textual exterior they are identical. This is why sass and scss files can import each other. Actually, Sass has four syntax parsers: scss, sass, CSS, and less. All of these convert a different syntax into an [Abstract Syntax Tree](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abstract_syntax_tree) which is further processed into CSS output or even onto one of the other formats via the sass-convert tool.

Use the syntax you like the best, both are fully supported and you can change between them later if you change your mind.



SASS

What is SASS? 

It’s an extension to CSS that can allow us to use variables, functions, conditionalstatements, and split SASS files up into modules.  
Browsers won’t understand our SASS code, so it must be translated into CSS via an application like Prepros, Koala, Compass, etc.
