**Overloads**

One thing to note is that a *function* signature allows *overloading*:

```js
var myTwo : {
    (x:number, y:number):number;
    (x:number):string;
}
```

Which is not supported for a `property` annotation.

**Function Overloading** - the next definition is wrong - look it up on axel

If 2 functions have the same name and same number of parameters, but different parameter types and return type. 

```ts
function add(a:string, b:string):string;

function add(a:number, b:number): number;

function add(a: any, b:any): any {
    return a + b;
}

add("Hello ", "Steve"); // returns "Hello Steve" 
add(10, 20); // returns 30 
```

Unusal > what is this?**  

- `log` takes a number, returns nothing

- after `=` the function begins: 

  ```ts
  const log: (i: number) => void = (i: number) => {
  }
  ```

- always annotate functions since args have not type inference.  

- annotate using form `parameter : type`

- return does use infernece, but we don't use it.. b/c it helps us catch mistakes

-------





What if we have a function that can take either 1 argument in on situation or 3 in another.

We specifiy this via overload sigantures. 



Just write 2+ function signatures, followed by the body of the function: 



```tsx
function makeDate(timestamp: number): Date;  /// in case its called with 1 argument
function makeDate(m: number, d: number, y: number): Date; // overload sig1: 3 arguments
function makeDate(mOrTimestamp: number, d?: number, y?: number): Date {  // the implementation signature
  if (d !== undefined && y !== undefined) {
    return new Date(y, mOrTimestamp, d);
  } else {
    return new Date(mOrTimestamp);
  }
}
const d1 = makeDate(12345678);
const d2 = makeDate(5, 5, 5);
const d3 = makeDate(1, 3);
No overload expects 2 arguments, but overloads do exist that expect either 1 or 3 arguments.
```



In the above case, the implementation signature reflects the either/or case presented by teh overload signatures

Remember

The signature of the *implementation* is not visible from the outside. When writing an overloaded function, you should always have *two* or more signatures above the implementation of the function.

The implementation signature must also be *compatible* with the overload signatures.

the implementation signature must match the overloads in a correct way

**Writing good overloads**

> Always prefer parameters with union types instead of overloads when possible



Here, we can accept a string or an array, but not either/or

```
function len(s: string): number;
function len(arr: any[]): number;
function len(x: any) {
  return x.length;
}
```

so this won't work: 

```
len(Math.random() > 0.5 ? "hello" : [0]);
```

Use the union instead:

```
function len(x: any[] | string) {
  return x.length;
}
```

***Overloaded functions** are functions having the same name but different signatures, that is, the number of the arguments.*'

This doesn't exist in JS, but it does in Java where you can have multiple function of same name but different arguments.

In JS, if 2 functions are defined with same name, then the last defined function will over write teh former.  

In JS, we mimic function overloading this way: 

- you can write a class the returns the right function depending on the number of arguments passed in
- you can write a function that counts the arguments and acts accordingly or uses optional arguments

