**Import / Export**
 
```js
// import one export per module ~ default
export default Home;
import Home [as other-name] from 'file-name';
// Import zero or many - Named 
export { myExport }; // or export { myFunction as default}
import {myExport} from '/modules/my-module.js';
// multiple
import {foo, bar} from '/modules/my-module.js';
// import for side effects - runs the module's code, but doesn't actually import values
import '/modules/my-module.js';
```

default - expects: 

- a hoistableDeclaration - var; not function, not class
- ClassDeclaration
- Assignment expression

const and let dont' qualify for these.
Variables defined with let and const are hoisted to the top of the block, but not initialized.
Meaning: The block of code is aware of the variable, but it cannot be used until it has been declared.
Using a let variable before it is declared will result in a ReferenceError.
JavaScript only hoists declarations, not initialization

export by itself accepts a VariableStatement or Declaration to its right.

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/36261225/why-is-export-default-const-invalid

Classes defined using a class declaration are hoisted, which means that JavaScript has a reference to the class. However the class is not initialized by default, so any code that uses it before the line in which it is initialized is executed will throw a ReferenceError.

Variables declared with let and const are also hoisted but, unlike var, are not initialized with a default value. An exception will be thrown if a variable declared with let or const is read before it is initialized.

Here we declare then initialize the value of a var after using it. The default initialization of the var is undefined.

One of the advantages of hoisting is that it lets you use a function before you declare it in your code.


https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Glossary/Hoisting

const Hello = () => {
  return (
    <div>
      <p>hello!!!</p>
    </div>
  );
};

export default Hello

----


elemenet

function

iteration

const x = [1, 2, 3];

const Hello = () => {
 
  return x.map((name) => {
    return (
      <div>
        <p>{name}</p>
      </div>
    );
  });
};

export default Hello;

passing var

<Hello name="3" />


const Hello = (r) => {
  const { name } = r;
  return x.map((name) => {
    return (
      <div>
        <p>{name}</p>
      </div>
    );
  });
};

export default Hello;
