**scope**

Scope determines the accessibility (visibility) of variables.

JavaScript has 3 types of scope:

- Block scope
- Function scope - 
- Global scope - declared outside of constructs / accessed everywhere
- class scope - not available outside unless prefixed by 'static'

```
class a {
  static a = 3;
  b=3;
}

console.log(a.a) //3
console.log(a.b) // undefined
```

differences

```
a = 5;// defined on the window
const a = 5; // define in the global 
console.log(this.a)
```



The reason why you can access *"out of scope"* or *"free"* variables in ECMAscript is the such called *Scope chain*. The scope chain is a special property from each *Execution context*. As mentioned several times before, a context object looks at least like:

- [[scope]]
- Variable / Activation Object
- "this" context value

each time you access a variable(-name) within a context (a function for instance), the lookup process always starts in it's own `Activation Object`. All formal parameters, function declarations and locally defined variables (var) are stored in that special object. If the variablename was not found in that object, the search goes into the `[[Scope]]`-chain. Each time a function(-context) is initialized, it'll copy all **parent context variable/activation objects** into its internal `[[Scope]]` property. That is what we call, a *lexical scope*. That is the reason why *Closures* work in ECMAscript. Since the `Global context` also has an `Variable Object` (more precisely, **the variable object for the global object is the global object itself) it also gets copied into the functions *[[Scope]]* property.

That is the reason why you can access `window` from within any function :-)

The above explanation has one important conceptional conclusion: Any function in ECMAscript is a *Closure*, which is true. Since every function will at least copy the *global context VO* in its *[[Scope]]* property.