**Event pooling**

Event pooling means that **whenever an event fires, its event data (an object) is sent to the callback**. The object is then immediately cleaned up for later use. This is what we mean by 'pooling': the event object is in effect being sent back to the pool for use in a later event.



SyntheticEvent = JS event object + performance-enhancing techniques

One such technique: 

- event-pooling

What happens?

1. event fires, 
2. event data object is sent to callback
3. object is cleaned for later us (the 'pooling part'); ie, its beeing sent back to the pool for use in a later event.

The consequence?

- when we try to log the object, the props are null, or save its property to a variable, or run timeout then access event, we get null.
- Thsi is done for efficiency, since we normally don't need to access eent data .  But if we do, we have two options: 

option one

`const target = event.target`

option two

`event.persist()`

**Asynchronous callbacks**

What are they? 

- they are functions used as an argument, which will be called withint that function.
- its often called at the end of a series of commands to let you know that the series is over.
- or it is called in a special case, for example, an error occurs 

Example? 

The second parameter addEventListener()



```js
let pElem = document.getElementById('#start');
pElem.addEventListener('click', () => {
  alert('You clicked me!');
```

in the case of react's syntheetic events:

We have this callback, which is a reference to a function which will be called in the special case of a "click":

`<div onClick=${this.handleClick}>Hello</div>`

This callback function can be found here: 

```javascript
    handleClick(event) {
        event.persist();
        this.setState((prevState) => ({
            foo: prevState.foo + event.pageX
        }));
    }
```

