two recent attacks

solar winds - supply chain attack

colonial pipeline - ransomware



cyberspace domain has 3 layers: 

- physical - interference with physical networks.
- syntactic - software ie malware, viruses trojans, spyware, and worms to corrupt code into existing software, causing a computer to perfrom actions or processes unintended by the operatr.  This can lead to distributed denial of serivce , where malware hijacks computers to create botnets, or groups of zombie computers thatt then attack other targeted computers.  
- semantic - human interaction with perception of info generated by computer.  social engineering manipulates our perception ffof incoming data to obtain passwords, financila details, and classified governmetn.  phishing where attackers send emails asking one to divulge sensitive info and baiting, where malware infected software is left in a public place in hope that user will find and install it.  
- 

hackers broke into solarWinds (IT comanpany)
they added malicious code.
they have 33K customers
they send out updates to their systems (to fix a bug, etc)
sent out updates that included the hacked code. 
code creates a backdoor to customers IT systemshackers use this to install more malware
malware allows someone to spy on organization 
at treasury dept, hackers broken into many emails acounts and networks - 


malware - 

 https://whatis.techtarget.com/feature/SolarWinds-hack-explained-Everything-you-need-to-know

 initial infection / attack vector - the portal used to introduced the malware.  

 malware is typically below 1 MB in size. allowing for easy download.  Some products thus creaate a max file size scanned parameter, so that people can limit. 

 macrosmicros virus. 

 malware types
 mass-mailer - higest propagation.  spreads by sending hundreds of emails from each infected cpu.  if infected email opened, it harvests email addresses stored. represent 3 percent of total.

 

