kinds of hardware? 
- physical (computer)
- virtual (virtual computer) - server space + basic functionality to accept an OSs


computer
- hardware
- os - hardware/app interface
- apps - MS office 

os (parts)
- kernel - loader pogram, drivers, task-manager, access, memory handler, system calls, security
- utilities - Utility software is system software designed to help analyze, configure, optimize or maintain a computer. It is used to support the computer infrastructure in contrast to application software, which is aimed at directly performing tasks that benefit ordinary users: Disk Cleanup, defragmenter, system restore, disk compression, registry cleaners, file splitters,  A device driver is a program that controls a particular type of device that is attached to your computer. There are device drivers for printers, displays, CD-ROM readers, diskette drives, and so on.
- shell / terminal - terminal is an i/o device + shell is the interpretation program.  shells run on terminals

shell (kinds)
- bash, zsh, fish
- powershell, cmd

os (kinds)
- windows (evolved from DOS kernel... Xbox uses this too)
- unix
  - linux (ubuntu, )
  - macos
 
 
GUI - a software package that provides a desktop, shortcuts to applications, a web browser and a media player

  This shell accepts commands, so we can learn bash commands that interact with the linux-unix OS.  They translate the commands into commands that the UNIX core will understand. 

Shell scripting is simply taking all the commands you would type in to do something and putting them in a text file so you don't have to type them in every time. 

A lot of "bash scripting" is really knowing how to compose and use the standard Unix utilities (find,ls,sort,grep,etc..). 


shell 
- a comand-line interpreer provides a command line UI
- a language
- provide piping, variables, conditions, iteration.
- used by os to exectute system elements via scripts
- interact with the shell using a terminal emulator

ways to access shell

- terminal emulato
- connect via SSH what is a SSH client (in terminal?)

2 sets of shell script syntax

1. Bourne - more flexible / popular.
- bash, sh, zsh, ksh
2. C shell syntax 

Apple replaced bash with zsh as defaul shell in macOS ~

