__regular function returns__

function a() {}  // undefined

function a() {
  const word = 'hi'
  return word;
}       

__2. function returns obj__

- create a new object
- assign it a prop + method
- reutrn 

problems: 
- global object
- we copy `user` into every object created: 
- memory wasted

```js
function print(word) {
  return {
    user: word,
    print: () => {console.log(word)}
  }
}

var a = print('mel'); //  { word: 'mel', print: ƒ () }
a.print() // mel
```

- We can add extra properties and methods to an object.
- but what of its prototype? 

```js
z.b = '5'; //ok
b.c = function() {console.log('a')} //
```


Revealing Module Pattern http://addyosmani.com/resources/essentialjsdesignpatterns/book/#revealingmodulepatternjavascript

Addy Osmani's Analysis copied from link above:

> Advantages
>
> This pattern allows the syntax of our scripts to be more consistent. It also makes it more clear at the end of the module which of our functions and variables may be accessed publicly which eases readability.
>
> Disadvantages
>
> A disadvantage of this pattern is that if a private function refers to a public function, that public function can't be overridden if a patch is necessary. This is because the private function will continue to refer to the private implementation and the pattern doesn't apply to public members, only to functions.
>
> Public object members which refer to private variables are also subject to the no-patch rule notes above.
>
> As a result of this, modules created with the Revealing Module pattern may be more fragile than those created with the original Module pattern, so care should be taken during usage.

