


# Register custom element with window 

This is an instance of the CustomElementRegistery object? it allows you to regist a custom element on the page, get a list of all custom-elements, etc. 

`window.customElements.define('starter-app', starter)`

* The customElements read-only property of the Window interface returns a reference to the CustomElementRegistry object, which can be used to register new custom elements and get information about previously registered custom elements.

`customElements.define('my-main', MyMain);`
 
- A DOMString representing the name you are giving to the element. Note that custom element names require a dash to be used in them (kebab-case); they can't be single words.
- A class object that defines the behavior of the element.
- Optionally, an options object containing an extends property, which specifies the built-in element your element inherits from, if any (only relevant to customized built-in elements; see the definition below).

So for example, we can define a custom word-count element like this:

`customElements.define('word-count', WordCount, { extends: 'p' });`

The element is called word-count, its class object is WordCount, and it extends the <p> element.

# write the class

A custom element's class object is written using standard ES 2015 class syntax. For example, WordCount is structured like so:

```js
class WordCount extends HTMLParagraphElement {
  constructor() {
    // Always call super first in constructor
    super();

    // Element functionality written in here

    ...
  }
}
```
STOP
This is just a simple example, but there is more you can do here. It is possible to define specific lifecycle callbacks inside the class, which run at specific points in the element's lifecycle. For example, connectedCallback is invoked each time the custom element is appended into a document-connected element, while attributeChangedCallback is invoked when one of the custom element's attributes is added, removed, or changed.

You'll learn more about these in the Using the lifecycle callbacks section below.

There are two types of custom elements:

Autonomous custom elements are standalone — they don't inherit from standard HTML elements. You use these on a page by literally writing them out as an HTML element. For example <popup-info>, or document.createElement("popup-info").
Customized built-in elements inherit from basic HTML elements. To create one of these, you have to specify which element they extend (as implied in the examples above), and they are used by writing out the basic element but specifying the name of the custom element in the is attribute (or property). For example <p is="word-count">, or document.createElement("p", { is: "word-count" }).
Working through some simple examples
At this point, let's go through some more simple examples to show you how custom elements are created in more detail.

Autonomous custom elements
Let's have a look at an example of an autonomous custom element — <popup-info-box> (see a live example). This takes an image icon and a text string, and embeds the icon into the page. When the icon is focused, it displays the text in a pop up information box to provide further in-context information.

To begin with, the JavaScript file defines a class called PopUpInfo, which extends the generic HTMLElement class.

class PopUpInfo extends HTMLElement {
  constructor() {
    // Always call super first in constructor
    super();

    // write element functionality in here

    ...
  }
}
The preceding code snippet contains the constructor() definition for the class, which always starts by calling super() so that the correct prototype chain is established.

Inside the constructor, we define all the functionality the element will have when an instance of it is instantiated. In this case we attach a shadow root to the custom element, use some DOM manipulation to create the element's internal shadow DOM structure — which is then attached to the shadow root — and finally attach some CSS to the shadow root to style it.

// Create a shadow root
this.attachShadow({mode: 'open'}); // sets and returns 'this.shadowRoot'

// Create (nested) span elements
const wrapper = document.createElement('span');
wrapper.setAttribute('class','wrapper');
const icon = wrapper.appendChild(document.createElement('span'));
icon.setAttribute('class','icon');
icon.setAttribute('tabindex', 0);
// Insert icon from defined attribute or default icon
const img = icon.appendChild(document.createElement('img'));
img.src = this.hasAttribute('img') ? this.getAttribute('img') : 'img/default.png';

const info = wrapper.appendChild(document.createElement('span'));
info.setAttribute('class','info');
// Take attribute content and put it inside the info span
info.textContent = this.getAttribute('data-text');

// Create some CSS to apply to the shadow dom
const style = document.createElement('style');
style.textContent = '.wrapper {' +
// CSS truncated for brevity

// attach the created elements to the shadow DOM
this.shadowRoot.append(style,wrapper);

Finally, we register our custom element on the CustomElementRegistry using the define() method we mentioned earlier — in the parameters we specify the element name, and then the class name that defines its functionality:

customElements.define('popup-info', PopUpInfo);
It is now available to use on our page. Over in our HTML, we use it like so:

<popup-info img="img/alt.png" data-text="Your card validation code (CVC)
  is an extra security feature — it is the last 3 or 4 numbers on the
  back of your card."></popup-info>
Note: You can see the full JavaScript source code here.

Internal vs. external styles
In the above example we apply style to the Shadow DOM using a <style> element, but it is perfectly possible to do it by referencing an external stylesheet from a <link> element instead.

For example, take a look at this code from our popup-info-box-external-stylesheet example (see the source code):

// Apply external styles to the shadow dom
const linkElem = document.createElement('link');
linkElem.setAttribute('rel', 'stylesheet');
linkElem.setAttribute('href', 'style.css');

// Attach the created element to the shadow dom
shadow.appendChild(linkElem);
Note that <link> elements do not block paint of the shadow root, so there may be a flash of unstyled content (FOUC) while the stylesheet loads.

Many modern browsers implement an optimization for <style> tags either cloned from a common node or that have identical text, to allow them to share a single backing stylesheet. With this optimization the performance of external and internal styles should be similar.

Customized built-in elements
Now let's have a look at another customized built in element example — expanding-list (see it live also). This turns any unordered list into an expanding/collapsing menu.

First of all, we define our element's class, in the same manner as before:

class ExpandingList extends HTMLUListElement {
  constructor() {
    // Always call super first in constructor
    super();

    // write element functionality in here

    ...
  }
}
We will not explain the element functionality in any detail here, but you can discover how it works by checking out the source code. The only real difference here is that our element is extending the HTMLUListElement interface, and not HTMLElement. So it has all the characteristics of a <ul> element with the functionality we define built on top, rather than being a standalone element. This is what makes it a customized built-in, rather than an autonomous element.

Next, we register the element using the define() method as before, except that this time it also includes an options object that details what element our custom element inherits from:

customElements.define('expanding-list', ExpandingList, { extends: "ul" });
Using the built-in element in a web document also looks somewhat different:

<ul is="expanding-list">

  ...

</ul>
You use a <ul> element as normal, but specify the name of the custom element inside the is attribute.

Note: Again, you can see the full JavaScript source code here.


# 5. export class and add the custom tag to the imported file 

 

