

**Log into a server**

The `ssh` command provides a secure encrypted connection between two hosts over an insecure network. This connection can also be used for terminal access, file transfers, and for tunneling other applications.

ssh username@serverhost/ipaddress/domain

ssh brad@192.55.333.33

Here, you tell computer, securely log into 192.55... using the username "brad".  If you get in, you are able to run commands on their terminal.  However, this user would only have certain privilieges - so maybe they can't wipe the hard drives




**ssh keys**

SSH - secure socket shell

SSH keys come in many sizes, but a popular choice is an RSA 2048-bit encryption, which is comparable to a 617 digit long password.

SSH keys always come in pairs, and every pair is made up of a private key and a public key.

- public key - this is the "encoder"; shared with github
- private key - the "decrypter" ; stays on computer

 __procss__

1. I send Github my pubkey
2. it uses pubkey to encrypt a “secret”
3. It sends me the encrypted “secret”
4. I decrypt “secret” using my pvt key

__key notions__

- github doesn't want you to use same ssh key on different repo/servers

**ssh-agents**

This is a program / form of SSO that

- trakcs keys + passphrases
- uses keys to log into other servers

**how to start this program?**

-  Auto-starts on login
- if not `eval ssh-agent`

**adding ssh keys to agent**

```
 ssh-add ~/.ssh/etc
```

**show key the agent is currently using**

```
ssh-add -l
```

'



'**ssl vs ssh**

ssh vs https (ssl/tls) - secure shell vs secure socket layer

SSH is used for executing commands on a server, using username/password for auth;
ssl for communicating info via urls, sing certificates for server auth; using network tunnels

In general, SSL is used for encrypting data in transit between two locations, such as your web browser and the server of a site that you’re visiting. SSL is what adds the “green padlock” in web browsers and it’s also what you use if you want to securely accept credit card information (or other sensitive data) on your website.

On the other hand, SSH is used to remotely log in to another computer (e.g. a web server) and create a secure connection to issue commands (via SSH tunneling). For example, if you want to connect to your site’s server to execute commands using WP-CLI, you’ll use SSH. At Kinsta, you’ll also use SSH when you want to connect to your server via SFTP access.


Telnet transfers the data in simple plain text. On other hand SSH uses Encrypted format to send data and also uses a secure channel. No authentication or privileges are provided for user's authentication.

Both SSH and HTTP are protocols to communicate between client and server. Following are the basic difference between SSH and HTTP.

SSH means “Secure Shell”. It has a built-in username/password authentication system to establish a connection. It uses Port 22 to perform the negotiation or authentication process for connection. Authentication of the remote system is done by the use of public-key cryptography and if necessary, it allows the remote computer to authenticate users.

HTTP means HyperText Transfer Protocol. HTTP is the underlying protocol used by the World Wide Web and this protocol defines how messages are formatted and transmitted, and what actions Web servers and browsers should take in response to various commands.