ssh-add Command Line Options

**Delete**

-D Deletes all identities from the agent.

`-d` Deletes the given identities from the agent. The private key files for the identities to be deleted should be listed on the command line.

**List**

-L Lists public key parameters of all identities currently represented by the agent.

-l Lists fingerprints of all identities currently represented by the agent.

**Other**

-E Specifies the hash algorithm for displaying key fingerprints. Valid options include md5 and sha256.

-e pkcs11path Remove identities provided using a PKCS#11 interface, identified by the given path to its shared library. PKCS#11 interfaces are typically used for accessing keys on smartcards and hardware security modules (HSM).

-k When loading keys into or deleting keys from the agent, process plain private keys onmly, skipping certificates.

-c Causes a confirmation to be requested from the user every time the added identities are used for authentication. The confirmation is requested using ssh-askpass.

-s pkcs11path Adds identities provided by the PKCS#11 shared library at pkcs11path. This is can be used for adding keys on smartcards or in hardware security modules (HSM).

-t life Sets the maximum time the agent will keep the given key. After the timeout expires, the key will be automatically removed from the agent. The value is seconds, but can be suffixed for m for minutes, h for hours, d for days, or w for weeks.

-X Unlocks the agent. This asks for a password to unlock.

-x Locks the agent. This asks for a password; the password is required for unlocking the agent. When the agent is locked, it cannot be used for authentication.