
__2 approaches__

__1. CREATE SSH CONFIG FILE: manages many ids__

- add config rules for different hosts.
- state which identity file for which domain. 
- file config file located here:  ~/.ssh/config. 
- If it exists, edit; else, create 

__example of config-entries__


```js
# Personal account, - the default config
Host github.com
   HostName github.com
   User git1
   Port (optional) 2332
   IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_rsa
   
# Work account-1
Host github.com-work_user1    
   HostName github.com
   User git2
   IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_rsa_work_user1
```
__use User git2__

```
ssh github.com-work_user1
```

**also, if added to keychain, does it just run through identifyFiles and check everything?**

<!-- Host do
AddKeysToAgent yes
UseKeychain yes
IdentityFile ~/.ssh/d-o

Host git
AddKeysToAgent yes
UseKeychain yes
IdentityFile ~/.ssh/id_rsa

Host *
  AddKeysToAgent yes
  UseKeychain yes

 -->

```

- “work_user1” is the GitHub user id for the work account.
- “github.com-work_user1” is a notation used to differentiate the multiple Git accounts. 
- You can also use “work_user1.github.com” notation as well. Make sure you’re consistent with what hostname notation you use. This is relevant when you clone a repository or when you set the remote origin for a local repository

__Explained: The above configuration asks ssh-agent to:__

Use id_rsa as the key for any Git URL that uses @github.com
Use the id_rsa_work_user1 key for any Git URL that uses @github.com-work_user1

__2) Alternative: One active SSH key in the ssh-agent at a time__

  
---

__Setting the git remote Url for the local repositories__

- clone or create your repo
- make sure Git config user name and email is set.
- GitHub identifies the author of any commit from the email id attached with the commit description.

To list the config name and email in the local Git directory, do: 

git config user.name
git config user.email.  

update: 

git config user.name "User 1"   // Updates git config user name
git config user.email "user1@workMail.com"

Now that the configurations are in place, we can go ahead and clone the corresponding repositories. 
On cloning, make a note that we use the host names that we used in the SSH config.

__clone:__

`git clone git@github.com:personal_account_name/repo_name.git`

The work repository will require a change to be made with this command:

`git clone git@github.com-work_user1:work_user1/repo_name.git`

- This change is made depending on the host name defined in the SSH config. 
- The string between @ and : should match what we have given in the SSH config file.

__For Locally Existing Repositories__

If we have the repository already cloned, List the Git remote of the repository:

git remote -v

Check whether the URL matches our GitHub host to be used, or else update the remote origin URL.

git remote set-url origin git@github.com-worker_user1:worker_user1/repo_name.git

Ensure the string between @ and : matches the Host we have given in the SSH config.

If you are creating a new repository on local, Initialize Git in the project folder git init.

Create the new repository in the GitHub account and then add it as the Git remote to the local repository.

git remote add origin git@github.com-work_user1:work_user1/repo_name.git 

Ensure the string between @ and : matches the Host we have given in the SSH config.

all done - 

__link__

https://linuxize.com/post/using-the-ssh-config-file/


https://gist.github.com/jexchan/2351996

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/14689788/multiple-github-accounts-what-values-for-host-in-ssh-config

https://linuxize.com/post/using-the-ssh-config-file/

