
TRANSFORM

4 functions:

1. translate - move object

transform: translate(100vw, 10vh)

2. scale - shrink and grow

transform: scaleX(1) // does nothing - 1:1 ratio
-0.5 // twice as samll
.5 // twice as large

3. rotate - turn along center point

transform: rotate(5deg)

The turn unit represents how many turns the element should make. 1 turn is equal to 360 degrees.

4. skew - move top in one direction and bottom in another

- degrees

COMBINATIONS

transform: translateX(0px) rotate(0deg);

TRANSFORM-ORIGIN

transform-origin: center or 25px bottom or left top or percentage

this becomes the center from which a transform action occurs

TRANSITIONS

transition: prop-name duration, prop-name duration....

duration in ms

also takes 'all' value 

  transition-timing-function: linear;

   transition: transform 250ms linear;

   ease-out comes charging in like a wild bull, but it runs out of energy. By the end, it's pootering along like a sleepy turtle.

   ease-in is the opposite of ease-out. It starts slow and speeds up:

   Next up, ease-in-out. It's the combination of the previous two timing functions:

   ease is very similar to ease-in-out, with one key difference: it isn't symmetrical. It features a brief ramp-up, and lots of deceleration:
ease is the default value — if you don't specify a timing function, ease gets used.

custom curves

    transform 250ms cubic-bezier(0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4);
    https://easings.net/

    delay actions

      transition-delay: 0ms;

So far, we've been using the transition shorthand to bundle all our transition-related values together. transition-delay can also be used with the shorthand:

.dropdown {
  opacity: 0;
  transition: opacity 250ms 300ms;
}

- center, 

   /* animation-name: move; */
    /* duration of keyframes */
    /* animation-duration: 9s; */
    /* is transform, below, redundant? */
 
    @keyframes move {
        from { 
            transform: translate(20px, 20px) scale(1.4) rotate(20deg);
        }
        to {
            transform: translate(520px, 520px) scale(1) rotate(200 deg);
        }
    }
    
    
    /* 
    transform methods, which can be chained - 
    translate - move object x,y pixels111
    scale - make object bigger / smaller 
    rotate - turning element
    transition: [transition-property] [transition-duration] [transition-timing-function] [transition-delay]; 
    
    -- 
    
    */