**jest matcher**

- a helper method: toBeInTheDocument() (see above)

**common jest matchers**
.toBe()
.toHaveLength(0)

**Jest-dom**

- makes DOM-based matchers available, eg: 
  - toBeVisible() 
  - toBeChecked()

- comes with CRA
- uses src/setupTests.js to import jest-dom before each test, which 

**RTL Queries**

get

- getByRole('button, {name: 'hi'}) // this gets a button whose name option is 'hi'. 
- getByLabelText / screen readers have access to this.  
- getByPlaceholderText 
- getByText - divs, spans
- getByDisplayValue - current value of a form element

# get

- `getBy` : returns the matching node, however will throw an `error` if **multiple** matches or **no** matches are found.

- `getAllBy` : returns an array of matching nodes if **at least one** match is found and throws an error if **no** match is found.

- semantic Queries // html5 / aria compliant selectors

  - getByAltText
  - getByTitle

  Test Ids

  - getByTestId

**Tip** : Use these methods if you expect the element / elements to be present upon query.

# query

- `queryBy` : returns the matching node if one match is found and `null` if no match is found, however will throw an `error` if **multiple** matches are found.
- `queryAllBy` : returns an array of matching nodes if **at least one** match is found and an empty array if **no** match is found.

**Tip** : Use these methods if you are looking to confirm presence of an element / elements.

# find

- `findBy` : returns a promise that returns the matching node, however will throw an `error` if **multiple** matches or **no** matches are found.
- `findAllBy` : returns a promise that returns an array of matching nodes if **at least one** match is found and throws an error if **no** match is found.



- 

**Example**

test('describe', () => {
  render(<App />);
  const link = screen.getByText('learn react);
  expect(link).toBeInTheDocument();
})

**Roles / arias**

[w3.org/TR/wai-aria#role_definitions](working)

