Database

After setting up a SQL-compatible database program, you'll need two things: 

- select a language for writing SQL scripts
- select an ORM as an interface between DB and your app

Object relational mapper (ORM) 

- they create objects that map to db tables
- we use objects to interact with tables
- simpler than writing long queries
- ie, ORM translates dbb objects to OOP objects

https://vertabelo.com/blog/orms-under-the-hood/

mySql - DBMS

- download mysql dmg file./ install
- enter pw for root user / start mysql server once install is complete
- install use cpu pw
- System preferences > see mysql > active / installed instances
- IDE - mysql work bench or command line
- mysql -u root -p
- mysql not found? 
  - run using the absolute path
  - get path variable: 
  - open -t .bash_profile
  - add line: 
  - export PATH=${PATH}:/usr/local/mysql-8.0.28-macos11-x86/bin

- showd databases; // see mysql's own 

https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/understanding-relational-databases



### Installing Sequelize

Begin by creating a project folder. In this example, you can use `hello-world`. Once the folder is created, navigate to the folder using the terminal:

```bash
mkdir node-server
cd node-server
npm init
touch server.js
npm i sequelize@6.11.0

```

You have set up the project and installed Sequelize. Next, you’ll create a sample database to connect to.

### Steps

1. once db / mysql installed, open terminal and create new DB



**create database instance**

Login to MYsql instance.  
-u` is username and the `-p` option is passed if the account is secured with a password.

```bash
mysql -u your_username -p
```

```bash
CREATE DATABASE hello_world_db;
```

show current DBs

```bash
SHOW DATABASES;
```

After creating the sample database, disconnect from the MySQL server:

```bash
mysql> QUIT
```

install mysql driver: 

```bash
npm install --save mysql2
```

Other drivers: 

- `npm install --save pg pg-hstore # Postgres`
- `npm install --save mysql2`
- `npm install --save mariadb`
- `npm install --save sqlite3`
- `npm install --save tedious # Microsoft SQL Server`

**Connect DB creds to Sequelize**

To connect to the database, open `server.js` for editing using `nano` or your preferred code editor:

```bash
nano server.js
```

In the `new Sequelize()` method, pass the MySQL server parameters and database credentials as follows, replacing `DATABASE_USERNAME` and `DATABASE_PASSWORD` with the credentials of your MySQL user:

/hello-world/server.js

```javascript
const Sequelize = require("sequelize");
const sequelize = new Sequelize(
 'hello_world_db',
 'DATABASE_USERNAME',
 'DATABASE_PASSWORD',
  {
    host: 'DATABASE_HOST',
    dialect: 'mysql'
  }
);
```

STOP

`host` is where the MySQL server is hosted, so you’ll need to provide a server URL or an IP address. If you are using a locally installed MySQL server, you can replace `DATABASE_HOST` with `localhost` or `127.0.0.1` as the value.

Similarly, if you are using a remote server, make sure to replace database connection values accordingly with the appropriate remote server details.

**Note:** If you are using any other database server software, you can replace the dialect parameter accordingly. `dialect: ‘mysql’, ‘mariadb’, ‘postgres’, ‘mssql’.

Next, call a [promise-based](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise) `authenticate()` method to instantiate a database connection to the application. To do that, add the following code block to the your `server.js` file:

/hello-world/server.js

```javascript
...

sequelize.authenticate().then(() => {
   console.log('Connection has been established successfully.');
}).catch((error) => {
   console.error('Unable to connect to the database: ', error);
});
```

Copy

The `authenticate()` method is used to connect with the database and tests whether the given credentials are correct. Here, the database connection is open by default and the same connection can be used for all queries. Whenever you need to close the connection, call the `sequelize.close()` method after this `authenticate()` call. To learn more about Sequelize, please see their [getting started guide](https://sequelize.org/docs/v6/getting-started/).

Most of the methods provided by Sequelize are asynchronous. That means you can run processes in your application while an asynchronous code block is in its execution time. Also, after the successful asynchronous code block execution, it returns a *promise*, which is the value returned at the end of a process. Therefore, in asynchronous code blocks, you can use `then()`, `catch()`, and `finally()` to return the processed data.

At this point, the `server.js` file will look like the following:

/hello-world/server.js

```javascript
const Sequelize = require("sequelize");

const sequelize = new Sequelize(
   'hello_world_db',
   'DATABASE_USERNAME',
   'DATABASE_PASSWORD',
    {
      host: 'DATABASE_HOST',
      dialect: 'mysql'
    }
  );

sequelize.authenticate().then(() => {
   console.log('Connection has been established successfully.');
}).catch((error) => {
   console.error('Unable to connect to the database: ', error);
});
```

Copy

Save and close your file.

In the project directory, run the `server.js` application by running the following command:

```bash
node server.js
```

Copy

Your output will look like this:

```
OutputConnection has been established successfully!
```

You have created the database connection successfully.

In this step, you installed Sequelize, created a sample database, and used Sequelize to connect with the database. Next, you will work with models in Sequelize.