## Step 2 — Creating a Database Table Using Sequelize

Now that you have created a sample MySQL database, you can use Sequelize to create a table and populate it with data. In Sequelize, database tables are referred to as *models*. A model is an abstraction that represents a table of the database. Models define several things to Sequelize, such as the name of the table, column details, and data types. In this step, you will create a Sequelize model for book data.

To begin, create a new file called `book.model.js` in the project directory:

```bash
nano book.model.js
```

Copy

Similar to the the previous step, add a Sequelize code for database initiation with a new import for `DataTypes` at the top of the file:

/hello-world/book.model.js

```javascript
const { Sequelize, DataTypes } = require("sequelize");
```

**MODEL**

Sequelize contains many built-in data types. To access those data types, you add an import for `DataTypes`. This tutorial refers to some frequently used data types, such as `STRING`, `INTEGER`, and `DATEONLY`. To learn more about other supported data types, you can refer to the official [Sequelize documentation](https://sequelize.org/docs/v6/core-concepts/model-basics/#data-types).

Then, include the lines you used previously to create a connection to your MySQL database, updating your MySQL credentials accordingly:

/hello-world/book.model.js

```javascript
...

const sequelize = new Sequelize(
   'hello_world_db',
   'DATABASE_USERNAME',
   'DATABASE_PASSWORD',
    {
      host: 'DATABASE_HOST',
      dialect: 'mysql'
    }
  );

sequelize.authenticate().then(() => {
   console.log('Connection has been established successfully.');
}).catch((error) => {
   console.error('Unable to connect to the database: ', error);
});
```

Copy

Next, you will create a model called `books`, which includes `title`, `author`, `release_date`, and `subject` ID. To do that, use the `sequelize.define()` method as shown:

/hello-world/book.model.js

```javascript
...

const Book = sequelize.define("books", {
   title: {
     type: DataTypes.STRING,
     allowNull: false
   },
   author: {
     type: DataTypes.STRING,
     allowNull: false
   },
   release_date: {
     type: DataTypes.DATEONLY,
   },
   subject: {
     type: DataTypes.INTEGER,
   }
});
```

Copy

The `sequelize.define()` method defines a new model, which represents a table in the database. This code block creates a table called `books` and stores the book records according to the `title`, `author`, `release_date`, and `subject`.

In this code, `allowNull` shows that the model column value cannot be `null`. Likewise, if you need to set such a value, you can use `defaultValue: "value"`.

Next, you’ll add the `book` model to your database. To do that, you’ll use the `sync()` method as follows:

/hello-world/book.model.js

```javascript
...

sequelize.sync().then(() => {
   console.log('Book table created successfully!');
}).catch((error) => {
   console.error('Unable to create table : ', error);
});
```

Copy

In the `sync()` method, you’re asking Sequelize to do a few things to the database. With this call, Sequelize will automatically perform an SQL query to the database and create a table, printing the message `Book table created successfully!`.

As mentioned, the sync() method is a promise-based method, which means it can also perform error handling. In this code block, you’ll check whether the table is created successfully. If not, it will return an error via the catch method and print it on the output.

**Note:** You can manage model synchronization by passing `force` parameters to force the creation of a new table if it does not exist, or else use an existing one. Here are some examples, which may be helpful to you while working with Sequelize:

- `model.sync()`: This creates the table if it doesn’t exist already.
- `model.sync({ force: true })`: This creates the table by dropping it if the same table exists already.

The final code will look like this:

/hello-world/book.model.js

```javascript
const {Sequelize, DataTypes} = require("sequelize");

const sequelize = new Sequelize(
   'hello_world_db',
   'DATABASE_USERNAME',
   'DATABASE_PASSWORD',
    {
      host: 'DATABASE_HOST',
      dialect: 'mysql'
    }
  );

sequelize.authenticate().then(() => {
   console.log('Connection has been established successfully.');
}).catch((error) => {
   console.error('Unable to connect to the database: ', error);
});

const Book = sequelize.define("books", {
   title: {
     type: DataTypes.STRING,
     allowNull: false
   },
   author: {
     type: DataTypes.STRING,
     allowNull: false
   },
   release_date: {
     type: DataTypes.DATEONLY,
   },
   subject: {
     type: DataTypes.INTEGER,
   }
});

sequelize.sync().then(() => {
   console.log('Book table created successfully!');
}).catch((error) => {
   console.error('Unable to create table : ', error);
});
```

Copy

Save and close your file.

Run your application by using the following command:

```bash
node book.model.js
```

Copy

You will get the following output in your command line:

```
OutputExecuting (default): SELECT 1+1 AS result
Executing (default): CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS `books` (`id` INTEGER NOT NULL auto_increment , `title` VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL, `author` VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL, `release_date` DATE, `subject` INTEGER, `createdAt` DATETIME NOT NULL, `updatedAt` DATETIME NOT NULL, PRIMARY KEY (`id`)) ENGINE=InnoDB;
Connection has been established successfully.
Executing (default): SHOW INDEX FROM `books`
Book table created successfully!
```

In the output, you will see the return log contains the message, `Book table created successfully!`. You can verify this by checking your database to see the new `books` table created in the `hello_world_db` database.

To verify the creation of the new table, log into your MySQL instance:

```bash
mysql -u YOUR_USERNAME -p
```

Copy

After inputting your password, change into the sample database:

```bash
USE hello_world_db;
```

Copy

And then run the command to show tables:

```bash
SHOW TABLES;
```

Copy

Your output will be similar to this:

```
+---------------------------+
| Tables_in_hello_world_db |
+---------------------------+
| books                     |
+---------------------------+
1 row in set (0.00 sec)
```

Finally, disconnect from the MySQL server:

```bash
mysql> QUIT
```

Copy

You have verified that the `book` model creation was successful. Using this process, you can create any number of models by following the same procedure.

In this step, you created a model in a database and initiated working with a model using built-in methods. You also used Sequelize-supported data types to define your model. Next, you will work with basic model queries.