What are props? 

- inputs to a React component 
- they pass these inputs from parent to child. 
- they are READ ONLY.  
- if you want to WRITE, use state instead.  

"props.children" is another property of "props". 

- it is available on every component. 
- it contains the content between the opening and closing tags of a component. For example:

If in the parent comp:

```javascript
<Welcome><h4>Hello world!</h4></Welcome>

```

then in the child comp, we can:

- console.log(this.props.children) and get "Hello world!"
- console.log(this.props.type) and get "h4".

**Part two**

components accept inputs called "props" and return react elements. 

function components require that props is passed in

class components don't require this.  

if we have a user-defined component, react will pass JSX attributes and chilren as a single "props" object

**Attributes**

```
const element = <Welcome name="Sara" />;
function Welcome(props) {
  return <h1>Hello, {props.name}</h1>;
}
```

The attribute `name = "Sara"`

appears in the props object as `props.name`



**Specialization**

***

**Props in Classes**

In the parent, we rendered the child, assigning state variables.

In the child, data/varaibles that we pass down are saved in the 'this.props' variable.

So in the child, we set up the state to take the 'values' variable: 

```javascript
class Child extends Component {
  state = {
    count: this.props.value
  };
```

If, in the child, you console.log this.props... 

```javascript
  console.log('props', this.props);
```

You see 4 objects represented, one for each object in our parent's state.counters array: 

```javascript
props {value: 4, selected: true}
props {value: 3, selected: true}
props {value: 2, selected: true}
props {value: 0, selected: true}
```

In the above, props will not show key because that is just the id

Props is actually an object from React.Component that lists all the attributes in the current component. 

**Inheritence**

inheritence isn't used in react - 

component inheritence hierarchies not necessary
