trees 



commits

a -- b -- c ---d
				\ e---f

commit - each letter above represents a node in the tree

pointers

branch - above there are 2 branches: main + feature

HEAD - if I checkout feature, then HEAD is on f

ref

 

pointer - shows my location in the tree.

HEADS



head - location of my last commit in current branch ("the active branch?"); default head - master / main; we checkout HEAD 'attached'/points to recent commit when we checkotu a branch

detached head - if I move location to a previous commit in current branch; reset | returns it to an attached state if you make changes to it, it belongs to an ANONYMOUS branch

HEAD → A reference to a specific commit (think of it as a variable). Normally, it points to the last commit in local repository. (that is, after you did git commit). [see Git: What's HEAD]

Every commit has a ID. The commit id is a 40 digits hexadecimal, for example: 3b6ea398cc2d69212b04c29f06b8d15c0af34e34.

`HEAD pointer` - 

- it always points to most recent commit of whatever branch you're in
- if you switch branches, head will move to this new branch. 
- it's where the next commit will latch on to.  

http://xahlee.info/linux/git_diff.html

BRANCHES

- the final node in a series of commits 
- a file that contains the SHA-1 checksum of the commit pointed to.

REFERENCES

REF – 3 kinds of references: 

1. heads
2. tags
3. remotes

Git show-ref      |     shows all references in your local repo

GIT CLEAN –FDX This will remove all local untracked files, so only git tracked files remain:

**an upstream is another branch name associated with a local branch.  The other branch is usually a remote-tracking one.  Each branch can only have one upstream.  git consults the branche's upstream to figure what to fetch, where to push, merge, rebase, pull, status.  When you first clone from a remote, you don't yet have a local branch master, only a remote tracking branch named origin/master that you cloned.  so create a new local master that points to the same commit as remote-tracking origin/master, and set the upstream for master to origin/master.  But for new branches with not remote tracking, ther is no origin/solaris - your local solaris can't track remote-tracking branch 

WHAT CAN WE CHECKOUT?

- branches or heads

 `fixing a detached head`

checkout master  (or whatever branch you want to revert to)

??? Detached head means you are no longer on a branch, you have checked out a single commit in the history (in this case the commit previous to HEAD, i.e. HEAD^).

If you want to delete your changes associated with the detached HEAD
You only need to checkout the branch you were on, e.g.

git checkout master
Next time you have changed a file and want to restore it to the state it is in the index, don't delete the file first, just do

git checkout -- path/to/foo
This will restore the file foo to the state it is in the index.	



checkout file from other branch

```bash
git checkout <other-branch-name> -- path/to/your/folder
```

​	