* 

 

**CHECKOUT**

- A branch is a commit.

- Checkout points HEAD to a label / branch
- our working tree is updated to refect this branch OR keeps mods in working tree so we can save to new branch?

**CHECKOUT flags**

checkout -b <branch> | creates + moves to new branch

checkout --track <repo>/<branch> | track a new remote branch? 

checkout -b <branch> <repo>/<branch> | connect a branch to a non-master branch or non-origin repo

 git checkout --track origin/<branch>track a remote branch - 

??

 git checkout -- five.txt // adds last repo commit to working  

 

**checkout a remote branch:** not needed what's below? 

git checkout -b origin/replace-polymer-elements  

brnach from this into your own 

git checkout -b CSA-7302  

**checkout a specific file:** 

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/4479960/git-checkout-to-a-specific-folder

__checkout someone's pr__

In github, get its id / branch name 

get a copy of the PR:  git fetch upstream pull/<id>/head:<branch>. 

In this example you would type git fetch upstream pull/123/head:branch-name

Now that you have a copy of the branch, switch to it: git checkout branch-name. 

Your directory will now be an exact copy of the PR. 

 **wierd**

checkout a past commit

now head is not on a "branch" , but on a nameless past commit - Headless chekout 

its not at the head of the branch as it shoudl be - that branch is headless. its head is elsewhere. 

commit from here. 

**Questions**

Whats difference between git checkout origin/xyz and git checkout xyz (on origin).

- second: if i've done a git pull and its name is in my local repo?









