what can we do with a server
- repond to pings, etc


__buy a domain name__

you can use an ip address for anything

namecheap.com? 
google, godaddy?

domain name helps you remember the ip address

domains get resolved via name servers, which keeps records called DNS records

__A records__

map name to ip address

www.jemyoungcom > 23.23.185.61

__CNAME records__ 

maps sub-domain to an ip address

blog.jemyoung.com > 23.23.185.61

__Domains and subdomains__

Regular domains are your standard URLs like splashthat.com or splashthat.events.

Subdomains are a unique URL that lives on your purchased domain as an extension in front of your regular domain like support.splashthat.com or blockparty.splashthat.com. 

A subdomain is an add-on to your primary domain name. Essentially, a subdomain is a separate part of your website that operates under the same primary domain name.

To create a subdomain, you must have a primary domain name. Without a primary domain name, there’s no way to add a subdomain onto it. 

For example, when you’re using the site Craigslist, you’re always using a subdomain like reno.craigslist.org, or sfbay.craigslist.org. You’ll automatically be forwarded to the subdomain that corresponds to your physical location. 

Or your primary domain name could be “bestwebdesigner.com,” while you could add a subdomain to that domain called “blog.bestwebdesigner.com.”

Subdomains give you the freedom of creating an entirely new website, while still using the same domain name. Plus, you can usually create an unlimited number of subdomains for every domain you own. 


`dig` command shows you records a given domain has. 

dig woodrose.casa - shows the a record
dig blog/woodrose.casa - hows the a + cname record

__domain setup__

1. buy your domain name


2. add domain name to digital ocean's name server

A 2 A records with your IP address
@ - root domain
www - 

use digital oceans' name server
modify name server on digital ocean
update name server on name cheap

go to digitial ocean / manage / networking

Add a domain

jemistheBest > "Add domain"

select create a new record: a cname, ns, etc


- hostname: @
will direct to: your droplet 
"create record"

- hostname: www
direct to same droplet
"create record"

so now the digital ocean DNS records should look like: 

A www.jemisthe.best  directs to ip
A jemisthebest directs to ip
NS jemisthe.best name... there are 3 name servers here. 

__3. direct name server to digital ocean__

copy the name for NS in digital ocean
go to the namecheap domain > details page under ""domain"

nameeserver
- custom DNS
- paste digital ocean name server ns1.digital.ocean
- paste all 3
- check / save 

now the record "jemisthebest" will be moved to digital ocean.  this former record is called the canonical record.

 