__server setup / update server software__

server setup consists of two parts
- add utilities
- add non-root user
- give user sudo permission
- disable root user


__1. add utilities (update software)__

APT stands for Advanced Package Tool. 
- it's the package manager for a Linux system
- contains commands for installing / removing / updating packages
 
Sample commands (to run in order) 

To update software: 

make sure you are logged into your server:

apt update (a wrapper around apt get)

apt upgrade / y (everyday?)

__2. add non-root user__

at this point, the person is logging in as `ssh root@ip`  

Here the user is `root`

We can change the user name: 

`adduser mel`

This sets the space for `ssh mel@ip`


It will then prompt you for various info, including your new password:

unix pw: markham77
blanks for everything else

so this particular user will have a password of markham77

__3. give ths user superuser access:__

now, if we switch to user `mel`, I won't have root access / superuser access.  limited to home directory

sudo - this means "superuser do this...." 

how to give the new user those privileges? user the `usermod` command

The following adds the user to the 'sudo group': 

`usermod -aG sudo mel`

now mel has sudo access; he only needs to use the password.

In order to switch to the `mel` user: su mel

In order to check sudo access: 

cat /var/log/auth.log --- / denied
try with `sudo` at start
add password... 
auth.log is a list of user behavior
including people trying to get into server
bots testing for vulnerabilities - open ports, 

disable root // loging with new user

change file permission so its readable / writeable by user

chmod 644 ~/.ssh/authorized_keys

only readable writable by sudo, mel, and certain daemons

__4. disable root login__

`sudo vi /etc/ssh/sshd_config`

ssh daemon config // program always running in the back ground

Find where it says
PermitRootLogin // change this to no

when we modify ssh config daemon // be careful 

now restart ssh daemon

`sudo service sshd restart`

exit // login as root, and it shouldn't let you

