
__nginx overview__

engine-x / most popular web services.
the other is apache / mostly used with apache

- reverse proxy
- web server 
- proxy server
- file server
- caching
- performance tuning
- compress files and send
- encyrption

currently server doesn't do anything
it's not setup to handle request: when request comes in, what do we do with it? 

nginx routes requests to the right place
like another server, app, database

request > nginx > sends request to app or database or whatever

we need to use sudo now to install new software because
we're not root anymore

how does the internet work? 
type in domain
this hits name server and gets teh IP
IP gets passed on to a lot and then nginx
nginx routes your to a page

__1. install nginx onto your server:__

sudo apt install nginx

start nginx

sudo service nginx start

go to your domain and you'll see the 'welcome to nginx page'
auto opens at port 80 firewall

domain > IP > nginx > serves file to browser

__nginx configuration__

show documentation:

sudo less /etc/nginx/sites-available/default

parts of nginx

1. base directory for requests:

`root /var/www/html`

apps live in the above - requests go here by default 

2. server block

server {
  listen 80 default_server;
  listen [::]:443 ssl default_server;

  root /var/www/html;

  server_name_;

  location / {
    try_files $uri $uri/ =404
    you can create paths and subdomains here?
    try_files < macro for doing something / proxy requests to another part of server
   }

3. location block: if path encountered, what to do?  

if / then do_this
location / { 
    #do_this_aka_directive
 
}  

how to create and edit index.html?
create the `html/index.html` page

sudo vi /var/www/html/index.html

hello // this isn't proper html ... 

:wq out of vim.. 

go to location 80

/var - this is on root

root files created by apt, right?

159.223.96.17:80

serves simple htmls pages


 
 so far:

__root__

bin   dev  home  lib32  libx32      media  opt   root  sbin  srv  tmp  var
boot  etc  lib   lib64  lost+found  mnt    proc  run   snap  sys  usr

__/var__

backups  crash  local  log   opt  snap   tmp
cache    lib    lock   mail  run  spool  www

__/var/www__

html 
* we will add our app folder here?

__/var/www/html__

index.html  index.nginx-debian.html