**REMOTES**

origin  https://github.com/edgewood1/blog.git (push)

origin  git@github.com:edgewood1/blog.git (push)

The difference between these two lines is the protocol used to communicate with the remote repository on GitHub:

1. `origin  https://github.com/edgewood1/blog.git (push)`: This uses the HTTPS protocol. When you use HTTPS, Git will prompt for your GitHub username and password (or a personal access token as of August 13, 2021) every time you communicate with the remote repository.

2. `origin  git@github.com:edgewood1/blog.git (push)`: This uses the SSH protocol. When you use SSH, Git uses your SSH keys for authentication, so you don't need to enter your username and password each time.

In general, SSH can be more convenient because it allows you to use SSH keys for authentication, but it requires a bit more setup. HTTPS is easier to set up but can be less convenient to use because it requires you to enter your credentials more often.

- if your repo is edgewood1 and your repo is blog then:

git remote set-url origin git@github.com:edgewood1/blog.git

- each local repo can have multiple remotes

To switch from HTTPS to SSH for your Git repository, you need to change the remote URL from an HTTPS URL to an SSH URL. Here's how you can do it:


* using a config file


If you want username elsevier-health, repo osmosis-gme-web to use the git-work ssh host creds:
`git remote set-url origin git-work:elsevier-health/osmosis-gme-web.git`

for monorepo:
`git remote set-url origin git-work:OsmosisKD/osmosis-monorepo.git`

Eventhough my git username is meldejesus, I have been given permission to access elsevier-health username/organization

~/.ssh/config

# Work repo
Host git-work
    HostName github.com
    User git
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/elsevier

# Local repo
Host git-local
    HostName github.com
    User git
    IdentityFile ~/.ssh/edgewood

**breakdown**

In a GitHub repository URL, the format is usually github.com/<username or organization>/<repository>.git. So in github.com/elsevier-health/osmosis-gme-web.git, elsevier-health is the username or organization, and osmosis-gme-web.git is the repository.

When you're using SSH and you have a custom host set up in your SSH config file (like git-work), you replace github.com with your custom host, but the rest of the URL stays the same. So git-work:elsevier-health/osmosis-gme-web.git corresponds to github.com/elsevier-health/osmosis-gme-web.git, but it uses the SSH key specified for the git-work host.


1. **Check the current remote URL**:

```bash
git remote -v
```

This command will display the URLs of all remotes for your repository. The output will look something like this:

```bash
origin  https://github.com/username/repo.git (fetch)
origin  https://github.com/username/repo.git (push)
```

2. **Change the remote URL to use SSH**:

```bash
git remote set-url origin git@github.com:username/repo.git
```

This command changes the remote URL of the `origin` to use SSH. Replace `username` and `repo.git` with your actual username and repository name.

Now, when you push to your repository, it should use your SSH key for authentication.

git remote - list all details

remote commands

The git remote command is meant for manipulating (working with, adding, and removing) remotes. It has ten (!) sub-commands:

| command                                   | meaning                        |
| ----------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| git remote add origin <url>               | defines and adds a remote repo |
| git remote rename <currentName> <newName> | change repo name               |
|                                           |                                |
|                                           |                                |
|                                           |                                |
|                                           |                                |
|                                           |                                |
|                                           |                                |
|                                           |                                |


git remote remove
git remote set-branches
git remote set-head
git remote get-url
git remote set-url
git remote show
git remote prune
git remote update

**REMOTE ARGUMENTS**

remote show origin | show full output of origin - shows head, remote branches, and how they are linked





remote set-url origin <url> | change the url of an exist remote

remote prune <repo> | delete tracking branches whose remote branches removed

**REMOTE FLAGS**

remote -v   | shows the name and url of remote repo



push –set-upstream origin remote_branch | tells GIT to always push a local branch (checked-out) to a remote branch.  You must check out this local branch first. After this, you only have to 'git push' not 'git push origin master'.



git remote update will update all of your branches set to track remote ones, but not merge any changes in.





__add existing project to github__
git add / commit
git remote add origin remote repository URL





s__show remote__

git remote -v

git show origin remote

__add remote__

What git remote add is for is to add a new remote. If you have one remote now, and you add another, you will then have two remotes. If you have none, and add one, you will have one.

`git remote add <name> <url>`

name - name of repo
url - ssh://user@host/path/to/repo.git

git remote add origin git@github.com:mel-dejesus/todo.git

__add remote part 2__

What git remote set-url is for is, mainly, to change the URL associated with some existing remote. Hence it takes the name of an existing remote, and a new URL. The default action is to remove the old URL and insert the new one instead.

`git remote set-url origin git@github.com:username/your-repository.git`

__commit / push__

$ git commit -am "Update README.md"
$ git push

