Forms

What is a form? 

a container for different kinds of user inputs
the form gathers these inputs and sends them to a server, defined by the `action` attribute. 

1. get teh ReactiveForms module.  This helps us manage form state:

   -  import the form module to **app.module**

   `import { ReactiveFormsModule } from '@angular/forms';`

   - add to imports array: 

   ```js
   @NgModule({
    ...
     imports: [BrowserModule, ReactiveFormsModule],

   ```

2. build model on a component

- models are describes the data used in teh view.  It handles user interactions such as clicking, scrolling, etc.  IE - it holds data and provides methods to work with the data.   

- In the class, you'll need a field property that will represent the model in the form
- here, we declare the field - it is undefined. 

`habitForm`

3. import the formBuild from the same angular/forms directory

- what are "form controls"? controls are the ways a user can interact with a UI (or form).  Control types include: buttons, checkboxes, radio buttons, menus, text input, file select, hidden controls, object controls.

- formBuilder is a "service" that provides methods for generating controls (inputs)
- import the class and inject the service
- generate form contents (markup)

`import { FormBuilder } from '@angular/forms';`

4. use the form builder

Forms have several realted controls.  ReactiveForms provides 2 ways of grouping such controls into a single input form: 

- group - tracks teh form state of a group of controls.  If one changes, we know.  Each control is tracked by name.
- form array - allows for adding / removing controls at run time.

create a formGroup instance in the constructor

pass the formBuilder into the constructor: 
- this person uses an "access modifier" on the parameter.  
- This will automatically assign that paramter to a field of the same name.  
- Private means access is limited.
- below, why not just: https://angular.io/guide/reactive-forms
 
```js
 constructor(private formBuilder: FormBuilder) {
    ....
    });
```

associate it with the model / view (ie, define the group).  
- below, `habitForm` is our model.
- `group` is the method on the `FormBuilder`
- parameter: object
- object: formControlName: default value (type inferred) 

```js
  constructor(private formBuilder: FormBuilder) {
    this.habitForm = this.formBuilder.group({
      title: '',
    });
```
5. create the form in the template: 

<form>
<input type="text" placeholder="add habit"/>
<button type="submit"> add </button>
</form>

Some form terms: 

formBuilder - this is a service
.group - method on service that does x
habitForm - our instance of group containing model

formGroup - we bind instance to this, which associates form with formGroup
Tracks the value and validity state of a group of FormControl instances.

formControlName - give form a name .. why?
Syncs a FormControl in an existing FormGroup to a form control element by name.



6. bind form to form group.  the value is from constructor. 

<form [formGroup] = 'habitForm'>

7. bind textfield to titlefield

<input formControlName="title">

Syncs a FormControl in an existing FormGroup to a form control element by name.



8. bind submit event using ngSubmit
parentheiss mean its an event or output

`<form (ngSubmit) = "OnSubmit(habitForm.value)"></form>`

`habitForm.value` is an object that contains all the values of our form as defined in the model (object) passed into `formBuild.group()`

9. define function

```js
  onSubmit(newHabit: Test) {
    const id = this.habits.length + 1;
    newHabit.id = id;
    this.habits.push(newHabit)
  }
```

10: add a Type for `newHabits`: 

```js
type Test = {
  id: number,
  title: string,
}
```

11. apply it to `habits`

`habits: Test[] = [ ... ]`