1. order
2. import component



__regular__

ngOnChanges()	
  
- data-bound input properties re/set. 
- The method receives a SimpleChanges object of current and previous property values.
- this happens very frequently, so any operation you perform here impacts performance significantly. See details in Using change detection hooks in this document.
- Called before ngOnInit() (if the component has bound inputs) and whenever one or more data-bound input properties change.
- if your component has no inputs or you use it without providing any inputs, the framework will not call ngOnChanges().

__on-load__

ngOnInit()	
- Initialize the directive or component after Angular first displays the data-bound properties and sets the directive or component's input properties. 
- See details in Initializing a component or directive in this document.
- Called once, after the first ngOnChanges(). 
- ngOnInit() is still called even when ngOnChanges() is not (which is the case when there are no template-bound inputs).

__regular__

ngDoCheck()	
- Detect and act upon changes that Angular can't or won't detect on its own. 
- See details and example in Defining custom change detection in this document.
- Called immediately after ngOnChanges() on every change detection run, and immediately after ngOnInit() on the first run.

__once / on-load__

ngAfterContentInit()	
- Respond __after__ Angular projects external content into the component's view, or into the view that a directive is in.
- See details and example in Responding to changes in content in this document.
- Called once after the first ngDoCheck().

__regular__

ngAfterContentChecked()	
- Respond after Angular checks the content projected into the directive or component.
- See details and example in Responding to projected content changes in this document.
- Called after ngAfterContentInit() and every subsequent ngDoCheck().

__once / on-load__

ngAfterViewInit()	
- Respond after Angular initializes the component's views and child views, or the view that contains the directive.
- See details and example in Responding to view changes in this document.
- Called once after the first ngAfterContentChecked().

__regular__
ngAfterViewChecked()	
- Respond after Angular checks the component's views and child views, or the view that contains the directive.
- Called after the ngAfterViewInit() and every subsequent ngAfterContentChecked().

__once__
ngOnDestroy()	
- Cleanup just before Angular destroys the directive or component. Unsubscribe Observables and detach event handlers to avoid memory leaks. See details in Cleaning up on instance destruction in this document.
- Called immediately before Angular destroys the directive or component.