 

Kinds of operators

 __Creation__ operators allow the creation of an observable from nearly anything. From generic to specific use-cases you are free, and encouraged, to turn everything into a stream.

 - interval: returns an Observable that emits an infinite sequence of ascending integers, with a constant interval of time of your choosing between those emissions. 

 - fromEvent: Creates an Observable that emits events of a specific type coming from the given event target.

 - of(...items) ~ returns an observable instance that synchronoosly delivers the values provided as argumnts
- from(iterable) - converts its arguments to an observable instance - often used to convert an array to an obserable.  


https://angular.io/guide/observables

 __Utility__ - provide a specific utility

 tap - Used to perform side-effects for notifications from the source observable
Used when you want to affect outside state with a notification without altering the notification
tap(nextOrObserver: function, error: function, complete: function): Observable

__Transformation__ as a value changes, we can tranform it

map - used like map js

switchMap  - allows me to connect two observables such that 1 is cancelled / restarted

obs1.switchMap(event => {
  return obs2  // cancels old subscriptions
}).subscribe(v=>console.log(v))

//emit (1,2,3,4,5)
const source = from([1, 2, 3, 4, 5]);
//add 10 to each value
const example = source.pipe(map(val => val + 10));
//output: 11,12,13,14,15





========
We'll see how to provide dependencies as constructor parameters to components or services and use the @Optional and @Inject decorators for adding optional dependencies or create injection tokens to pass parameters to services.

In Angular 10 and previous versions, the constructor has a special use besides its typical use. Since Angular uses dependency injection for wiring various artifacts such as components and services, the injector makes use of the constructor to inject the dependencies into the class which can a component, or a service, etc. Angular resolves providers you declare in your constructor. This is an example:

https://www.techiediaries.com/angular-10-constructor-parameters-inject-optional/



__operators: static v instance__

static / instant methods of observable class

static / geneators

Rx.Observable.<operator> 
- 10-15 of these
- create a new observable without any input

instance operators

- Rx. Observable.prototype.<operator>
- we already have an observable and we want to to things with this
- this scope is the input Observable


