 

1. use .then or await to access promise
2. apply .json() to read response stream to completion
3. .json() always returns a promise (like fetch and axios), so use .then or await to access it

  fetch('/send', {
    method:'POST',
    headers: {
      Accept: 'application/json',
      'Content-Type': 'application/json',
  },
    body: JSON.stringify(value)
  })
  .then((resp) => {
    return resp.json();

  }).then((resp) => {
    console.log(resp)
  })


Other things to note

When you return something from a then() callback, it's a bit magic. If you return a value, the next then() is called with that value. However, if you return something promise-like, the next then() waits on it, and is only called when that promise settles (succeeds/fails).

Source: https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/getting-started/primers/promises#queuing-asynchronous-actions

2
When you return a new Promise object, it will always be a promise object ([object Promise] when stringified).

You access the result of a promise by using the .then method (or using await in an async function). Your .then callback is then called when/if the result is made available, which will happen after you call resolve, or if the promise was already resolved prior it will be called rather quickly.

3. return on a delay

const fetchData = () =>
  new Promise(resolve => (
    setTimeout(() => resolve(apiCall()), 3000);
  ));


await, then, catch together

An async function can contain an await expression that pauses the execution of the async function and waits for the passed Promise's resolution, and then resumes the async function's execution and returns the resolved value.

As you can see from below example that you can use two ways to handle await result and errors,The keyword await makes JavaScript wait until that promise settles and returns its result (One you get from resolved promise).So as such there is no harm (I don't fully understand what you refer as harm here).

 