**Promise methods**

**reject**

```
const promise1 = Promise.reject('x');

promise1.catch((error) => {
  console.error(error);
});
```

also 

getAllPosts().then(response => {
    console.log(response);
}).catch(e => {
    console.log(e);
});
You can also just put a console.log(reponse) at the beginning of your API callback function, there is definitely an error message from the Graph API in it.

More information: https://developer.mozilla.org/de/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise/catch

Or with async/await:

//some async function
try {
    let response = await getAllPosts();
} catch(e) {
    console.log(e);
}



 
Promise is a constructor function	

**constructor function vs objects**

- both result in objects
- CF result in many instances of same object
- An object literal on the other hand is one-off, like string and number literals, and used more often as configuration objects or global singletons (e.g. for namespacing).


******

Promise is an object

It contains various methods such as reject, resolve, apply, etc

It’s prototype property contains methods catch, finally,  then etc

Methods

- then() method returns a promise and takes 2 arguments: 
  A callback functionfor the succcess or failure case of Promise
- Catch() – takes the rejected method

You can use a Promise object via the “new” operator.  

- Into it, we pass a function that is called – a callback – which itself takes two methods: resolve and reject.  
- In the body, we can call either resolve or reject. 
- In the body, we can call resolve, passing into a value to return.
- Since resolve is a method of our promise, we are essentially passing this value to our promise, which will hold it. 
- Below, whenever setTimeout is reached, we call the resolve() passing in ‘foo’

```
var promise1 = new Promise(function(resolve, reject) {
// this is the slow function
  setTimeout(function() {
    resolve('foo');
  }, 300);
});
```

We can then call our then() method on the promise.

Then takes in a function, which takes the data delievered by the promise. 

So in essence, 

Promise.resolve() will accept data
Promise.prototype.then() will deliver data

NESTED PROMISE SEARCHES

MULTIPLE INDEPENDENT PROMISES - returns all at once - waits on the slowest one.

var p1 = new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
setTimeout(function(){ resolve(5)}, 3000)
})

var p2 = new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
resolve(15)
})

// the chunk of code that is dependent on the delayed data is set apart to run whenever it arrives. meanwhile, all other parts of the code can continue runninng.  
Promise.all([p1, p2]).then(data => {

console.log(data) // an array of the two resoposes - 5, 15
const [a, b] = data

})

If you're getting back json, you'll map through the response and define each as json:

.then(data=> {
return Promise.all(data.map(res=> res.json()))
})
.then(data => {
console.log(data)
})
Native Promises - built into browser, such as fetch

 Promises

 

Non-promise thenables

let thenable = {
then: function(resolve, reject) {
resolve(42);
}
};
let p1 = Promise.resolve(thenable);
p1.then(function(value) {
console.log(value); // 42
});