

__Modules__

A module is:
- code exported to another file
- code registered with export keyword
- a file that exports one or more of its symbols


Two kinds of modules:
- commonJs (NODE) - require / exports
- ES6 / ES2015 - import / export

ES6 MODULES
-----

**Two ways of importing a function**

```js
export function sum(a, b) {
	return a + b,
}
export const sum = (a, b) => a+b

```

```js
import * as sum from './sum' // as object with a sum method
import {sum} from './sum' // as a function
```

TWO KINDDS OF EXPORTS

Named exports

- can export several values.
- must use same name on import
```jsx
export const myFunction = () => {
  console.log('This is a named export');
};
import { myFunction } from './myModule';
// or multiple
export { x, y , z}
import { x, y, z }
```

Default exports

- export only a single object, function, variable.
- use <u>any name</u> to import.

```jsx
// Default export
const myFunction = () => {
  console.log('This is a default export');
};

export default myFunction;
import myFunction from './myModule';
// with named exports
export { named as default, x, y, z }
import anyname, { x, y, z}
```

COMMON.JS
------
`module.exports`
- main object returned by require()

```jsx
module.exports = {
  a: function() {
    console.log('This is function a');
  },
  b: function() {
    console.log('This is function b');
  }
};
// anotherFile.js
const { a, b } = require('./myModule');
a(); // 'This is function a'
b(); // 'This is function b'
```

`exports`
- a reference to module.exports
- used if you want to export an object with multiple props

```jsx
exports.myFunction1 = function() {
  console.log('This is function 1');
};

exports.myFunction2 = function() {
  console.log('This is function 2');
};

// anotherFile.js
const { myFunction1, myFunction2 } = require('./myModule');
myFunction1(); // 'This is function 1'
myFunction2(); // 'This is function 2'
```

`dangeR`
- exports is initially a reference to module.exports.
- If you assign a value directly to exports (like exports = x), you break the reference to module.exports, and require will return whatever module.exports currently holds, which is {} by default.
- If you add a property to exports (like exports.x = 5), you're actually adding a property to the object that exports references (which is module.exports), so require will return an object with that property ({x: 5}).


`We can import the function as a function or object method: `

```jsx
const {greet} = require('./greet'); // imports as function
const greet = require('./greet'); // imports as object
```

`Below, we have a named and default export`

```jsx
const A = 'A'
module.exports = {
  A,
  default: A,
}
```

Named:
// myModule.js
exports.myFunction = function() {
  console.log('This is a named export');
};

// anotherFile.js
const { myFunction } = require('./myModule');
myFunction(); // 'This is a named export'

Unnamed:
// myModule.js
module.exports = function() {
  console.log('This is a default export');
};

// anotherFile.js
const myFunction = require('./myModule');
myFunction(); // 'This is a default export'

=========

In CommonJS (used in Node.js), you use module.exports or exports to export things from a module, and require to import them. In ES6, you use export to export things and import to import them. Here are the key differences:

Syntax: In CommonJS, you assign the object you want to export to module.exports or add properties to exports. In ES6, you use the export keyword.
CommonJS:

module.exports = function() { /*...*/ };
// or
exports.myFunction = function() { /*...*/ };

ES6:
export function myFunction() { /*...*/ };

Importing: In CommonJS, you use require. In ES6, you use import.
CommonJS:
const myModule = require('./myModule');
ES6:
import { myFunction } from './myModule';
;
Static vs. Dynamic: ES6 exports are static, meaning you can determine imports and exports at compile time (statically) – you can only use the export keyword at the top level. CommonJS modules can be dynamic, meaning you can put require statements inside functions or if statements, and you can change what a module exports at runtime.

Value vs. Reference: CommonJS exports are a value copy, meaning changes in the exporting module after an import don't affect the importing module. ES6 exports are live references, meaning changes in the exporting module can affect the importing module.

Default Exports: Both CommonJS and ES6 support default exports, but the syntax is different. In CommonJS, you just assign the default export to module.exports. In ES6, you use export default.

CommonJS:
module.exports = function() { /*...*/ };
;
ES6:
export default function() { /*...*/ };




**Other**


- selective loading via named imports
- async imports
- aka ESM scripts or MJS

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40294870/module-exports-vs-export-default-in-node-js-and-es6
