A droplet is a virtual server – a production machine that spins up quickley.  It is a Linux-based virtual machine that runs on top of virtualized hardware.  A programming environment. 

Digital ocean, like AWS, is a “cloud-server”, or ‘cloud service platform’ that offers database storage, computer power, etc.  .  Others include google cloud, azure.  

The ‘cloud’ refer to a group of servers that can be used for hosting, data sharing, and softward use

Dgital ocean allows use to set up affordable linux instances called droplet.  

You can have many virtual machines running DO.  
Can you have many apps being served on each? 
A VM image is a blueprint / recipe of a particular VM environment
A VM instance is a running blueprint. 

Docker allows you to manage application processes in containers, which are processes that isolate resources.  

Containers and VMs are two ways to deploy multiple isolated services ona single platform.  Each VM will have its own OS, runtimesystem (node), and app.
A container manager will merely host varous runtimesystems (node) (java?) each withtheir app.
A runtime system is an engine that translates a given programming language or languages into machine code.
My OS has a system of shared files, etc.  so I can run a 1 then another runtimesystem, and both are sharing all the same files systems, like local/bin, etc… 
A VM will create an OS-runtime that’s isolated from my physical system, on which I can build and run my app
A container will host a runtime system that’s also isolated, but which shares resources with the physcial OS.
https://www.electronicdesign.com/dev-tools/what-s-difference-between-containers-and-virtual-machines

So why would I use docker containers on my VM that’s running a particular OS and runtime? 

Maybe I want to create a container in this VM in order to run Python backened? 

Essentially, docker is a containerization tool that provies software apps with a filesystem that container all that app needs to run.  If in a container, a piece of software will always behave the same way, regardless of where it is deployed, becaues its runtime environment is consistent.  

https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/working-with-docker-containers

https://www.vermasachin.com/posts/8-running-docker-containers-digitalocean/



DNS – go t godaddy DNS seetings and screae an entry to point back to digital ocean.  

remote dekstop also an option