Templates and Slot - 

slot tag only works in shadowDOM elements!!!

We can nest elements inside our light-DOM element and they will be rendered.
The browser represents these elements as NODES (which are objects) on the DOM (document object)
HTML becomes bytes, which the browser translates to DOM tree. 

<app-drawer>
  <p> whatever </p>
<app-drawer>

How, if we try to next elements inside a shadowDOM element, nothing will happen - they will be invisble. 
UNLESS, we make space for them in app-drawer's shadowDOM.  We do this using a <slot> element: 

  template.innerHTML = `<h1>Hello, World!</h1>
  <slot> </slot>`

  Above, we show where the child element passed to app-drawer will go. 

  We could also have multiple elements passed in, and they will appear in order. 

  Or we can designate using the name attribute.

<app-drawer>
  <p slot="a"> whatever </p>
    <p slot="c"> whatever </p>
      <p slot="b"> whatever </p>
<app-drawer>

Consider: 

  template.innerHTML = `<h1>Hello, World!</h1>
  <slot name ="c"> </slot>
  <p> next </p>
  <slot name="a"></slot>`
 
 GETTERS AND SETTERS

 a property getter and setter that will keep the property and attributes in sync by setting the element’s attribute when the element’s property gets updated. The attributeChangedCallback does the inverse: updates the property when the attribute changes.



 How to set up to accept attributes? 

  // A getter/setter for an open property.
  get open() {
    return this.hasAttribute('open');
  }

  set open(val) {
    // Reflect the value of the open property as an HTML attribute.
    if (val) {
      this.setAttribute('open', '');
    } else {
      this.removeAttribute('open');
    }
    this.toggleDrawer();
  }


Sources

https://css-tricks.com/creating-a-custom-element-from-scratch/